README.md, before:

# ViewerKit SDK

ViewerKit is a robust SDK crafted to enable developers to build extensions for VS Code and Cursor, transforming AI IDEs into versatile AI agents beyond coding. By providing a unified API, it allows developers to seamlessly integrate custom viewing and editing experiences into their extensions without dealing with complex backend tasks, enabling them to focus on frontend or user facing features. Optimized for vibe coding, ViewerKit empowers you to create tailored data visualization agents, content creation workspaces, i18n management toolkits, and much more.

## 🚀 Features

- **Universal File Operations**: Cross-platform file API that works in VS Code, Cursor, Windsurf and Trae.
- **Hot Reload**: Automatic file watching with 100ms debounce and conflict resolution
- **Smart Autosave**: Intelligent autosave that is designed to work with hot reload
- **React Hooks**: Pre-built hooks for file watching, autosave, and state management
- **TypeScript First**: Full type safety with comprehensive .d.ts files
- **Theme Integration**: Seamless VS Code theme synchronization using CSS variables
- **Templates**: Use templates on top of the sdk to build your extension in a few prompts

## 📦 Installation

```bash
npm install viewerkit
```

**Requirements:**
- Node.js ≥18
- VS Code ≥1.85.0 (includes Cursor, Windsurf and Trae)
- React ≥18 (for React features)

## 🎯 Quick Start

### Basic File Operations

```typescript
import { Features } from 'viewerkit';

// Read a file with metadata
const result = await Features.fileOps.readFile('path/to/file.txt');
if (result.success) {
  console.log(result.content);
  console.log(`Lines: ${result.metadata.lines}, Words: ${result.metadata.words}`);
}

// Write a file with metadata
const result = await Features.writeFile('output.txt', 'Hello ViewerKit!');
console.log(`Wrote ${result.data} bytes`);
```

### React Integration

```tsx
import { Hooks, UI } from 'viewerkit';

function MyEditor() {
  // Watch a file for changes (includes content, error state, and auto-reload)
  const fileData = Hooks.useWatchedFile('/path/to/config.json');
  
  // Auto-save with 400ms debounce and conflict resolution
  const saveFunction = Hooks.useAutosave('/path/to/draft.md', 400);
  
  // Get current VS Code theme with CSS variables
  const { theme, cssVariables, isDark } = Hooks.useTheme();
  
  return (
    <UI.BasePanel title="My Editor" subtitle="Edit your configuration">
      <p>File: {fileData.data || 'Loading...'}</p>
      <p>Theme: {isDark ? 'Dark' : 'Light'}</p>
      
      <textarea 
        value={fileData.data || ''}
        onChange={(e) => saveFunction(e.target.value)}
        style={{ 
          backgroundColor: cssVariables?.['--vk-bg-primary'],
          color: cssVariables?.['--vk-text-primary']
        }}
      />
      
      <UI.Button 
        variant="primary" 
        icon="save"
        onClick={() => saveFunction(fileData.data || '')}
      >
        Force Save
      </UI.Button>
    </UI.BasePanel>
  );
}
```

### Extension Development

```typescript
import { registerEditor, Features } from 'viewerkit';
import * as vscode from 'vscode';

export function activate(context: vscode.ExtensionContext) {
  // Register a webview panel with ViewerKit
  const panel = registerEditor(context, {
    viewType: 'myExtension.editor',
    title: 'My Custom Editor',
    htmlContent: `<!DOCTYPE html>...`,
    enableScripts: true,
    retainContextWhenHidden: true
  });

  // Use features directly
  Features.watchFile('/path/to/watch', { debounceMs: 100 });
  Features.hostAutosave('/path/to/file.txt', 'content');
}
```

## 🏗️ Architecture

ViewerKit follows a clean architectural pattern:

- **Core**: Stable foundation (runtime, bridge, registry)
- **Features**: Backend services (autosave, hotReload, fileOps)
- **Hooks**: React wrappers for all functionality
- **UI**: Pre-built React components with our templates

## 📚 API Reference

### Core Exports

- `Features.*` - All backend functionality
- `Hooks.*` - React hooks for state management
- `UI.*` - Pre-built React components
- Bridge and runtime utilities

### Key Features

| Feature | Description | React Hook | Default Settings |
|---------|-------------|------------|------------------|
| **File Operations** | Universal file I/O with metadata | `useFileOperations` | Format-agnostic |
| **Hot Reload** | File watching with loop prevention | `useWatchedFile` | 100ms debounce |
| **Autosave** | Smart saving with backup creation | `useAutosave` | 400ms debounce |
| **Theme Sync** | Live CSS variable injection | `useTheme` | Auto CSS variables |
| **Bridge System** | Host-webview communication | `useBridge` | Promise-based |
| **State Persistence** | Cross-session state management | Built into `BasePanel` | Auto save/restore |
| **Diagnostics** | VS Code Problems panel integration | Built-in | Error/warning/info |
| **UI Components** | Theme-aware React components | Direct imports | `BasePanel`, `Button`, `Toolbar` |

## 🔧 Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
pnpm install

# Build the SDK
pnpm run build

# Type checking
pnpm run typecheck

# Linting
pnpm run lint
```


## 🤝 Contributing

ViewerKit is open source and contributions are welcome! Please see our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## 📄 License

MIT © ViewerKit Team

---

**Need help?** Check out our [documentation](https://viewerkit.dev) or open an issue on GitHub.

Commit message:

1.0.1 updates with react 19 support, kiro compatibility support, a hot reload fix

README.md, after:

# ViewerKit SDK

ViewerKit is a robust SDK crafted to enable developers to build extensions for VS Code, Cursor, Windsurf, Trae, Kiro and other VS Code-based editors, transforming AI IDEs into versatile AI agents beyond coding. By providing a unified API, it allows developers to seamlessly integrate custom viewing and editing experiences into their extensions without dealing with complex backend tasks, enabling them to focus on frontend or user facing features. Optimized for vibe coding, ViewerKit empowers you to create tailored data visualization agents, content creation workspaces, i18n management toolkits, and much more.

## 🚀 Features

- **Universal File Operations**: Cross-platform file API that works in VS Code, Cursor, Windsurf, Trae, Kiro (AWS), and other Code OSS-based editors.
- **Hot Reload**: Automatic file watching with 100ms debounce and conflict resolution
- **Smart Autosave**: Intelligent autosave that is designed to work with hot reload
- **React Hooks**: Pre-built hooks for file watching, autosave, and state management
- **TypeScript First**: Full type safety with comprehensive .d.ts files
- **Theme Integration**: Seamless VS Code theme synchronization using CSS variables
- **Templates**: Use templates on top of the sdk to build your extension in a few prompts

## 📦 Installation

```bash
npm install viewerkit
```

**Requirements:**
- Node.js ≥18
- VS Code ≥1.85.0 (includes Cursor, Windsurf, Trae and Kiro)
- React ≥18 (for React features)

## 🎯 Quick Start

### Basic File Operations

```typescript
import { Features } from 'viewerkit';

// Read a file with metadata
const result = await Features.fileOps.readFile('path/to/file.txt');
if (result.success) {
  console.log(result.content);
  console.log(`Lines: ${result.metadata.lines}, Words: ${result.metadata.words}`);
}

// Write a file with metadata
const result = await Features.writeFile('output.txt', 'Hello ViewerKit!');
console.log(`Wrote ${result.data} bytes`);
```

### React Integration

```tsx
import { Hooks, UI } from 'viewerkit';

function MyEditor() {
  // Watch a file for changes (includes content, error state, and auto-reload)
  const fileData = Hooks.useWatchedFile('/path/to/config.json');
  
  // Auto-save with 400ms debounce and conflict resolution
  const saveFunction = Hooks.useAutosave('/path/to/draft.md', 400);
  
  // Get current VS Code theme with CSS variables
  const { theme, cssVariables, isDark } = Hooks.useTheme();
  
  return (
    <UI.BasePanel title="My Editor" subtitle="Edit your configuration">
      <p>File: {fileData.data || 'Loading...'}</p>
      <p>Theme: {isDark ? 'Dark' : 'Light'}</p>
      
      <textarea 
        value={fileData.data || ''}
        onChange={(e) => saveFunction(e.target.value)}
        style={{ 
          backgroundColor: cssVariables?.['--vk-bg-primary'],
          color: cssVariables?.['--vk-text-primary']
        }}
      />
      
      <UI.Button 
        variant="primary" 
        icon="save"
        onClick={() => saveFunction(fileData.data || '')}
      >
        Force Save
      </UI.Button>
    </UI.BasePanel>
  );
}
```

### Extension Development

```typescript
import { registerEditor, Features } from 'viewerkit';
import * as vscode from 'vscode';

export function activate(context: vscode.ExtensionContext) {
  // Register a webview panel with ViewerKit
  const panel = registerEditor(context, {
    viewType: 'myExtension.editor',
    title: 'My Custom Editor',
    htmlContent: `<!DOCTYPE html>...`,
    enableScripts: true,
    retainContextWhenHidden: true
  });

  // Use features directly
  Features.watchFile('/path/to/watch', { debounceMs: 100 });
  Features.hostAutosave('/path/to/file.txt', 'content');
}
```

## 🏗️ Architecture

ViewerKit follows a clean architectural pattern:

- **Core**: Stable foundation (runtime, bridge, registry)
- **Features**: Backend services (autosave, hotReload, fileOps)
- **Hooks**: React wrappers for all functionality
- **UI**: Pre-built React components with our templates

## 📚 API Reference

### Core Exports

- `Features.*` - All backend functionality
- `Hooks.*` - React hooks for state management
- `UI.*` - Pre-built React components
- Bridge and runtime utilities

### Key Features

| Feature | Description | React Hook | Default Settings |
|---------|-------------|------------|------------------|
| **File Operations** | Universal file I/O with metadata | `useFileOperations` | Format-agnostic |
| **Hot Reload** | File watching with loop prevention | `useWatchedFile` | 100ms debounce |
| **Autosave** | Smart saving with backup creation | `useAutosave` | 400ms debounce |
| **Theme Sync** | Live CSS variable injection | `useTheme` | Auto CSS variables |
| **Bridge System** | Host-webview communication | `useBridge` | Promise-based |
| **State Persistence** | Cross-session state management | Built into `BasePanel` | Auto save/restore |
| **Diagnostics** | VS Code Problems panel integration | Built-in | Error/warning/info |
| **UI Components** | Theme-aware React components | Direct imports | `BasePanel`, `Button`, `Toolbar` |

## 🔧 Development

```bash
# Install dependencies
pnpm install

# Build the SDK
pnpm run build

# Type checking
pnpm run typecheck

# Linting
pnpm run lint
```


## 🤝 Contributing

ViewerKit is open source and contributions are welcome! Please see our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## 📄 License

MIT © ViewerKit Team

---

**Need help?** Check out our [documentation](https://viewerkit.dev) or open an issue on GitHub.
